[EDU-2643] cli edge app (#394)
aziontech/docs: src/content/docs/en/pages/devtools/cli/azion-cli-alpha/edge-application/edge-application.mdx

menu_namespace: cliMenuAlpha
permalink: /documentation/products/cli/edge-application/
---

See the command and subcommands that enable the management of your Cache Settings used on the Azion Platform using **Azion CLI**.

---

## Create

### Usage

```bash
$ azion create edge-application --name "naruno"
```

### Required flags

#### name

The `--name` flag sets the name of the edge application being created. It's required if the `--in` flag isn't used.

### Optional flags

#### address

The `--address` option specifies the address of a resource or server.

#### browser-cache-settings

The `--browser-cache-settings` option configures the amount of time that content is cached in the user's browser. Possible values are `honor` or `override`.

#### browser-cache-settings-maximum-ttl

The `--browser-cache-settings-maximum-ttl` option defines the maximum time to live (TTL) of cached resources in the browser. It sets a time limit for how long resources can be cached in the browser.

#### cdn-cache-settings

The `--cdn-cache-settings` option configures how Azion caches content at the edge. Possible values are `honor` or `override`.

#### cdn-cache-settings-maximum-ttl

> The `--cdn-cache-settings-maximum-ttl` option defines the maximum time to live (TTL) of cached resources in the CDN. It sets a time limit for how long resources can be cached on the CDN servers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `--cdn-cache-settings-maximum-ttl` option defines the maximum time to live (TTL) of cached resources in the edge. It sets a time limit for how long resources can be cached on the edge nodes.
```

#### delivery-protocol

The `--delivery-protocol` option specifies whether the data should be delivered via HTTP or HTTPS.

#### host-header

> The `--host-header` option allows customization of host headers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `--host-header` option allows customization of the `Host` header.
```

#### http-port

> The `--http-port` flag specifies the edge application's HTTP Port. The default is `80`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `--http-port` flag specifies the edge application's HTTP delivery port. The default is `80`.
```

Reviewer: Só pra separar do origin address port

#### https-port

> The `--https-port` flag specifies the edge application's HTTPS Port. The default is `443`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `--https-port` flag specifies the edge application's HTTPS delivery port. The default is `443`.
```

#### http3

> The `--http3` option enables HTTP3.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `--http3` option enables delivery in HTTP/3.
```

#### websocket

The `--websocket` option allows you to establish the WebSocket communication protocol between your origin and your users under the reverse proxy architecture.

#### debug-rules

The `--debug-rules` option allows you to check whether rules or rule sets created using the Rules Engine module for Edge Application and Edge Firewall have been successfully executed in your application.

---

## List

### Usage

```bash
$ azion list edge-application [flags]
```

### Optional flags

#### details

The `--details` flag displays all relevant fields when listing.

#### page

The `--page` option returns a page of the list according to its number. By default, it's `1`.

#### page_size

The `--page_size` option defines how many items should be returned per page. By default, it's `10`.

#### help

The `--help` option displays more information about the `azion list edge-application` action.

---

## Update

### Usage

```bash
$ azion update edge-application --id <application_id> [flags]
```

### Required flags

#### id

The `--id` flag specifies the edge application's ID to be updated.

### Optional flags

#### application-acceleration

> The `--application-acceleration` flag specifies whether the edge application has Application Acceleration active or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `--application-acceleration` flag specifies whether the edge application has the [Application Acceleration](/en/documentation/products/edge-application/application-acceleration/) module active.
```

#### delivery-protocol

> The `--delivery-protocol` flag specifies the edge application's Delivery Protocol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `--delivery-protocol` flag specifies the edge application's [delivery protocol](/en/documentation/products/edge-application/main-settings/).
```

#### device-detection

The `--device-detection` flag specifies whether the edge application has Device Detection active or not.

#### edge-firewall

The `--edge-firewall` flag specifies whether the edge application has Edge Firewall active or not.

#### edge-functions

> The `--edge-functions` flag specifies whether the edge application has Edge Functions active or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `--edge-functions` flag specifies whether the edge application has the [Edge Functions](/en/documentation/products/edge-application/edge-functions/) module active.
```

#### http-port

> The `--http-port` flag specifies the edge application's HTTP Port. The default is `80`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `--http-port` flag specifies the edge application's HTTP Port. By default, it's `80`.
```

#### https-port

> The `--https-port` flag specifies the edge application's HTTPS Port. The default is `443`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `--https-port` flag specifies the edge application's HTTPS Port. By default, it's `443`.
```

#### image-optimization

> The `--image-optimization` flag specifies whether the edge application has Image Optimization active or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `--image-optimization` flag specifies whether the edge application has the [Image Processor](/en/documentation/products/edge-application/image-processor/) module active.
```

#### in

> The `--in` flag specifies the given path and JSON file to automatically update the edge application attributes; you can use `-` for reading from stdin.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `--in` flag specifies the given path and JSON file to automatically update the edge application attributes. You can use `-` for reading from stdin.
```

#### l2-caching

> The `--l2-caching` flag specifies whether the edge application has L2 Caching active or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `--l2-caching` flag specifies whether the edge application has the [L2 Caching](/en/documentation/products/edge-application/l2-caching/) module active.
```

#### load-balancer

> The `--load-balancer` flag specifies whether the edge application has Load Balancer active or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `--load-balancer` flag specifies whether the edge application has the [Load Balancer](/en/documentation/products/edge-application/load-balancer/) module active.
```

#### min-tsl-ver

> The `--min-tsl-ver` flag specifies the edge application's Minimum Tls Version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `--min-tsl-ver` flag specifies the edge application's Minimum TLS Version.
```

#### name

The `--name` flag specifies the edge application's name.

#### raw-logs

> The `--raw-logs` flag specifies whether the edge application has Raw Logs active or not.

Reviewer 2: o que seriam os raw logs pra estar em maiúsculo?

Author: ```suggestion
The `--raw-logs` flag specifies whether the edge application has raw logs active or not.
```

#### webapp-firewall

The `--webapp-firewall` flag specifies whether the edge application has Web Application Firewall active or not.

### help

The `--help` option displays more information about the update action.

---

## Describe

### Usage

```bash
$ azion describe edge-application --application-id <application_id> [flags]
```

### Required flags

#### application-id

> The `--application-id` flag specifies the unique identifier of the Edge Application to display its attributes in detail.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `--application-id` flag specifies the unique identifier of the edge application to display its attributes in detail.
```

### Optional flags

#### format

The `--format` flag changes the output format by passing the `json` value to the flag.

#### help

The `--help` flag displays more information about the describe command.

#### id

> The `--id` flag specifies the unique identifier of the Edge Application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `--id` flag specifies the unique identifier of the edge application.
```

#### out

The `--out` flag exports the output to the given `<file_path/file_name.ext>`.

> :::note Replace `<application_id>` in the `--application-id` flag with the actual ID of the Edge Application you want to describe.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::note
Replace `<application_id>` in the `--application-id` flag with the actual ID of the Edge Application you want to describe.
```

:::

---

> ## Global Options

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Global options
```

> - `-c, --config string`: Sets the Azion configuration folder for the current command only, without changing persistent settings.
> - `-d, --debug`: Displays log at a debug level.
> - `-l, --log-level string`: Displays log at a debug level (default "info").
> - `-s, --silent`: Silences log completely; mostly used for automation purposes.
> - `-t, --token string`: Saves a given personal token locally to authorize CLI commands.
> - `-y, --yes`: Answers all yes/no interactions automatically with yes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `-c, --config string`: sets the Azion configuration folder for the current command only, without changing persistent settings.
- `-d, --debug`: displays logs at a debug level.
- `-l, --log-level string`: displays logs' levels to debug (default "info").
- `-s, --silent`: silences logs completely; mostly used for automation purposes.
- `-t, --token string`: saves a given personal token locally to authorize CLI commands.
- `-y, --yes`: answers all yes/no interactions automatically with `yes`.
```

---
title: Azion CLI edge-application
description: See the command and subcommands that enable the management of your edge applications through Azion.
meta_tags: CLI
namespace: documentation_cli_edge_application
menu_namespace: cliMenuAlpha
permalink: /documentation/products/cli/edge-application/
---

> See the command and subcommands that enable the management of your Cache Settings used on the Azion Platform using **Azion CLI**.

Author: ```suggestion
See the command and subcommands that enable the management of your edge applications on the Azion Platform using **Azion**.
```

---

## Create

### Usage

```bash
$ azion create edge-application --name "naruno"
```

> ### Required flags

Author: ```suggestion
### Required flags abbab
```

#### name

The `--name` flag sets the name of the edge application being created. It's required if the `--in` flag isn't used.

### Optional flags

#### address

> The `--address` option specifies the address of a resource or server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `--address` option specifies the address of the origin server.
```

#### browser-cache-settings

The `--browser-cache-settings` option configures the amount of time that content is cached in the user's browser. Possible values are `honor` or `override`.

#### browser-cache-settings-maximum-ttl

> The `--browser-cache-settings-maximum-ttl` option defines the maximum time to live (TTL) of cached resources in the browser. It sets a time limit for how long resources can be cached in the browser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `--browser-cache-settings-maximum-ttl` option defines the maximum time to live (TTL) of cached resources in the browser. It sets a time limit for how long resources can be cached in the browser, in seconds.
```

#### cdn-cache-settings

The `--cdn-cache-settings` option configures how Azion caches content at the edge. Possible values are `honor` or `override`.

#### cdn-cache-settings-maximum-ttl

> The `--cdn-cache-settings-maximum-ttl` option defines the maximum time to live (TTL) of cached resources in the edge. It sets a time limit for how long resources can be cached on the edge nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `--cdn-cache-settings-maximum-ttl` option defines the maximum time to live (TTL) of cached resources in the edge. It sets a time limit for how long resources can be cached on the edge nodes, in seconds.
```

#### delivery-protocol

The `--delivery-protocol` option specifies whether the data should be delivered via HTTP or HTTPS.

#### host-header

The `--host-header` option allows customization of the `Host` header.

#### http-port

The `--http-port` flag specifies the edge application's HTTP delivery port. The default is `80`.

#### https-port

The `--https-port` flag specifies the edge application's HTTPS delivery port. The default is `443`.

#### http3

The `--http3` option enables delivery in HTTP/3.

#### in

The `--in` option specifies a path to a JSON file containing the attributes of the edge application being created. It can also read from stdin using `-`.

#### origin-protocol-policy

The `--origin-protocol-policy` option specifies the type of connection between the edge nodes and the origin. Possible values are `preserve`, `http`, or `https`.

#### origin-type

The `--origin-type` option specifies the type of the origin. Possible values are `single_origin` (default value), `load_balancer`, or `live_ingest`.

#### supported-ciphers

> The `--supported-ciphers` option determines which cryptographic algorithms will be used in the TLS connections of your edge application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `--supported-ciphers` option determines which cipher suite will be used in the TLS connections of your edge application.
```

#### websocket

> The `--websocket` option allows you to establish the WebSocket communication protocol between your origin and your users under the reverse proxy architecture.

Author: Eu vou subir e jogar essa questão pro time, ai dependendo, eu já removo
